>> Kyle Simpson: Let's jump
into deep JS foundations.
We're gonna be talking about
JavaScript from the core outward.
And as Mark mentioned,
this is revision two of
one of my earliest and
most popular of my workshops.
[COUGH] The previous title of this
course was Advanced JavaScript,
the what you need to know parts and
many people have seen that.
I'm sure some people here and
online have watched that course before.
And I wanted to explain the context
of this one which is expanded,
new coverage of content, deeper coverage.
But I wanted to explain the context
of that compared to the previous one.
So first, let me start with the title.
I called it Advanced JavaScript way back
in the day and I stuck with that name for
a really long time even though
it tended to create confusion,
because I've noticed
something that's interesting.
If you call something advanced and
then you explain it so
well that it seem simple,
sometimes people get frustrated.
And I've had people complain like,
wait a minute,
I thought I was getting like every
kind of like hot framework and
acronym of the weak or whatever and
all you did was talk about closure.
I didn't get my money's worth.
So, I've had that sort of a complain.
And then on the other end of the spectrum,
when you show up and you teach something
that is genuinely more deeper and
more rigorous than people are used to and
they show up thinking,
it's gonna be a lighthearted intro.
They get quickly frustrated,
because it's over their head or
it's going faster than what they expect.
So there's this interesting
balance between what you call it,
the expectation that that says and what
that will mean to people's perceptions
of the value that they got out of it.
So after a lot of reflection,
I decided that the reason I called it
advanced was I wanted people to know this
is a lot more rigorous than you're used
to going with these particular topics.
But I always had to give that caveat.
This is not what most
people called advanced.
Because most people say, well,
advanced should be all about
the tools like the gulps and
the web packs of the world and
we don't cover any of that stuff in
either the previous course or this one.
So, I changed the name to
Deep JavaScript Foundations.
Because I wanna point out that,
that is my specific focus.
That's what I do when I teach and that's
what you should expect out of any course
or any book that you read from me is that
I would hope that people would save me,
that his material goes uncommonly
deeper into the details and
deeper into the how and the why
behind things besides just the what.
That's what the expectation should be.
So, I'm setting that expectation
with the title of the course.
I just wanna let everybody know that.
We're not gonna be covering a broad
range of topics that will leave
your head spinning.
What we're gonna do is cover actually
a rather narrow set of topics, but
we're gonna go much deeper with those
topics than most people are used to going
with them.
Hence, the title.
If you have read my book series,
the You Don't Know JS books,
you would know that those
books are also very rigorous.
So, expect that this course
will be somewhat like that.
Although if I would had teach
the full contents of this books,
we would be here for weeks at a time.
So, if you looking for where do I go next?
He says a thing and
I wanna understand that deeper.
I wanna go deeper with that.
The books are the best place to go and you
can read the entire book series for free.
All 6 books,
the 1,100 pages worth on the GitHub repo.
So I strongly recommend
that you track along or for
those of you who are watching this
after the live experience, go and
take breaks and
track along with the book and read that.
Because that is how you'll go even deeper
than the coverage that we'll have here in
this class and in these things.
So if you have watched the previous
course, the tactic is the same.
We're gonna continue to go deep
with these core mechanics.
In some ways,
we're even narrower than before.
Because previously,
we covered asynchronous topics and
that's now become its own full-fledged
two-day course as opposed to just an hour
tacked onto the end of the day.
So, we're narrowing
the focus in some respects.
But in other respects,
expanding the focus on the things
that we really ought to know.
And I thought while doing that, it would
be a good opportunity to actually go
back and come up with a fresh set
of exercises to practice on that.
And in the previous course, there were
only three or four exercises to go over.
There are eight for this course, so
there's double the number of exercises.
It's actually one application
that we go back and
work on in each of the eight exercises.
So we progressively go back and
reexamine it, and work on it, and
improve it throughout the course
of all the exercises.
So, we will be doing that across
the entirety of this course.
[COUGH] And so, what you should expect
from this is a rigorous journey
through the three core foundations
of what JavaScript is about.
And those foundations include
the types and coercion system,
and that's probably the most maligned
of all the features in JavaScript.
Most people take the prospective that
coercion is some ugly necessary evil, if
you will to the design of the language or
it's poorly designed, even the creator of
the language himself claims that he made
a bunch of mistakes in the design of it.
And so oftentimes,
when I stand up and say, actually,
I think this is a pretty
great part of the language.
It flies in direct contrast to a lot
of the established wisdom on the topic,
but I think understanding types and
understanding the way the types are
converted which is coercion and using that
to our advantage rather than being scared
of them and staying away from them.
Understanding that mechanism, that's
the first core pillar of the language.
And I don't think you can go
anywhere else with the language,
if you don't really have
a solid foundation of that.
So we're gonna start with the types and
coercion system,
really dig into what that's about and
get into those details.
Now the truth is we have to go
through a mired set of details,
which can be a little bit convoluted.
We have to go through
mired set of details for
you to get the perspective that
you need to have on that topic,
but it will not be the case that in your
day to day thinking or in your day to day
development that you have to think
about every one of those details.
We'll try to boil with everything we
talk about down to some patterns and
some take aways that you can create some
instincts in your development code around.
So, that's the first core foundation.
The second one, the scope and
closures system in JavaScript.
Of the three, if I had to pick only one
to teach, it would be the scope and
closure system.
Cuz it turns out that closure is actually,
probably the most important concept every
invented in all of computing science.
If not the most,
it's in the top two or three.
Now, some of you know that
Doug Crockford and I don't always agree.
We don't always see eye to eye.
He's a smart guy,
has a lot of great stuff to say.
And every once and awhile,
he says something truly profound.
And he pointed out on this topic,
he was talking about closure in
a conference talk some years ago.
And he pointed out that if you look back
at the history of computing science,
turns out that the most
important concepts that
were invented took an entire generation
of programmers before they took hold.
And his tongue in cheek theory for
that was well,
whenever something new is invented, all
the existing crowd is resistant to change.
Because why do I need to change it?
So, we have to wait long enough for
them to all die or
retire before the new crowd can
take over with these new patterns.
And he goes on to say,
we know that closure is truly great.
Because it took two full
generations to take hold.
So, I think closure really is
actually the most important of all
the foundational concepts.
And when you start to understand what that
is and you start to recognize that in all
places of your code,
you'll start to agree with that.
So, we're gonna spend some
time talking about that.
But again, that surfaces to us a set of
patterns, namely the module pattern for
code organization.
It surfaces to us a set of patterns that
we hopefully can use as instincts in
writing better code and the third and
final core foundation that we'll cover in
this course is that these,
and object prototypes system.
And if you're paying attention,
you notice I just listed out
the three books of my series.
Because those are where we start.
If you wanna understand JavaScript,
you need to understand that.
If you tell me that you can configure
webpack with your eyes closed,
I'm impressed.
Because webpack is complicated.
But if you tell me you can articulate
exactly the difference between and
object, the prototype chain and
the closure in lexical scope chain,
that's what really gets me impress.